welcome to the man of recaps this is
shadow and bone season one meet alina
starkov she's a cartographer a map maker
in the first army of ravka
she's just been transferred to the army
base on the border of this gigantic
wall of shadow called the fold alina is
an orphan her parents died when she was
young trying to cross the fold and it
essentially cuts eastravka off from the
world because they're at war with their
neighbors the fjurdens in the north and
the shoe to the south alina is half shoe
which makes things awkward and she's
been discriminated against her whole
life she had one friend growing up
another orphan malian ortezev mal they
were inseparable as kids and he's in the
army too they're still best friends and
he grew up hot
now the army's sending a skiff through
the folds to get supplies from west
ravka it's not definitely a death
sentence there's a small chance of
survival but unfortunately mao's name
gets called oh
bad luck elina's not letting her friend
go alone she burns the maps of the other
side so now they've gotta send
a cartographer leading the expedition is
agricia yes that's the word for wizards
they make up the second army and they
all have one specific power like fire or
wind and so here we go we're traveling
into the fold
as you might imagine it's very dark and
scary inside this one guy in fact lights
a lantern which is the one thing you're
not supposed to do
because the light attracts monsters oh
yeah the vulcara and things get out of
hand real quick
alina's getting carried off well guess
the show's over but wait what's this she
starts glowing
and boom pure sunlight energy destroys
all these volcara they turn the boat
around and come home so they can bring
elena before the leader of the second
army yes he is a shadow summoner the
black general the darkling
general kiragan alina was never tested
for magic as a kid so now general
kerrigan pokes her and indeed she is the
first ever
legendary sun summoner and apparently
it's her destiny to destroy the fold and
save the world meanwhile on the island
city of ketterdam it's a dark and gloomy
haven of crime the young owner of the
crow club is kaz brecker a criminal
mastermind type his friends are jasper
the charismatic goofy sharpshooter and
an edge the serious super stealthy cat
burglar type she just heard about a new
job that pays 1 million kruga yes this
wealthy merchant has a prisoner he was
on the ship but bailed early so he made
it across to the other side
he fills him in on the existence of a
sun summoner so it's like hey if you
cross the folding kidnapper i'll pay you
one million kruga but there's another
criminal in town who wants this job
pekka rollins he's a real bad dude seems
to be the top crime kingpin in the city
and apparently kaz has some sort of
personal beef with pekka rollins from
something in his past so he's like i'm
not giving up the job but that million
crew is mine before they can go though
an edge is actually an indentured
servant to helene of the menagerie kaz
is going to use some of the million to
buy out her debt but for now he puts up
the crow club as collateral so the crows
recruited guy called the conductor who
apparently has a safe way to ferry
people across the fold
somehow he built a train that zooms on
through and it is very safe unless the
bulk refined ya jasper starts freaking
out but luckily they brought a goat as
an emotional support animal so calmed by
the power of the goat he's able to wham
blast them all off and they make it
through safely now at the little palace
selena is adjusting to her new life she
makes friends with jenya a type of
grecia called a tailor who's basically
got magic makeup powers there's combat
training in the mornings but mostly she
works with bagra the old woman who lives
in a cave who tries to teach her how to
control her powers she befriends general
kerrigan who's like hey call me
alexander he's a real sad emo guy
because as a shadow sorcerer his
ancestor the black heretic is the one
who created the fold alina comforts him
and around him her powers are amplified
oh the sexual tension's off the charts
but what about mal they both claim to
just be friends but clearly have a crush
on each other she writes some letters
every day but he never responds she's
like oh now that i'm a grisha he must
not like me anymore you know what forget
that guy i'm the sun summoner baby i'm
gonna go make out with general hot again
but poor mal has been writing her every
day and she's never responded to his
letters someone's intercepting them but
one day orders come in from the second
army to track down the legendary magical
deer
yes apparently an ancient grecia used
forbidden magic to create these animals
out of his own finger bones
any creature that kills them can absorb
them into their body and get a huge
power boost
mal volunteers he figures this might be
his chance to get back to alina so with
his two best friends he goes magical
deer hunting but their journey takes
them across the beard and border and oh
they're attacked mal survives but his
friends died but just then he does find
where the magical stag lives so he goes
to the little palace like yo i found
your deer kiergen's like cool man show
me where but he's like yo i wanna talk
to elena first but mal's gonna have to
wait because tonight there's a big fancy
party going on where elena's showing off
her son summoner powers to all the
foreign diplomats and a sun summoner is
no normal grisha it's like part of their
whole religion they call her saint elena
and who snuck into this party it's the
crows they send the conductor to sneak
into her secret changing room and grab
her but oh he's not grabbing her he's
assassinating her but that wasn't alina
it was a body double queen amidala style
and in fact kaz knew the conductor was
going to do that and set him up over in
west ravco with the fold separating them
from the capitol there's an independence
movement going on kaz saw that general
meet with the conductor the two guys
that profit from the fold existing don't
want the sun summoner taking it down so
now the crows can kidnap her for real
but general kirigan comes up with some
flowers like i'll escort the lady myself
and these two sneak off for some
mid-party hanky-panky oh
naughty but just then they get the news
someone tried to assassinate her so
kyrgen's like wait here i'll be right
back but sneaking in through the secret
passage is bagra like yo girl come with
me she's like oh kyrgan's just playing
you he's secretly evil and i know this
because i'm also a shadow summoner
i'm his mom turns out he's not the
descendant of the black heretic
he is the black heretic yes he is the
immortal
darkling wow he doesn't want to destroy
the fold he needs her powers to help him
control it so it's like you got to get
out of here and so jasper having seduced
a stable boy is waiting outside with the
getaway carriage one who should show up
but their target the sun summoner
looking for a carriage to hide in
well that was a freebie and the crow's
failed mission somehow succeeded now
there's no better time to take a break
for the story of nina zenik she's a type
of grecia called a heart renderer that
can like manipulate your body stuff and
make you feel all happy but heart
renders are also skilled combatants they
can rip you apart from the inside
but nina's ambushed by some feared and
grisha hunters the druskela who take her
prisoner and this poor actress spends
most of the season freezing cold soaking
wet chained up on a boat this one guy
matthias is kind of nice to her even
though he still thinks she's an evil
witch but when the boats sunk in a storm
they have to work together titanic style
to survive they end up snuggling for
warmth and long story short he realizes
she's not an evil witch she's a nice
girl and they fall in love they're gonna
run off together and travel the world
but oh he falls asleep yes her old
grecia comrades are here to rescue her
but she's like no i don't need to be
rescued he's nice but run enough to fall
in love with the enemy is not acceptable
so she pulls a bold move and yells out
that he's a slaver
and there's some slaver hunters here
looking to collect on the bounty so they
get away from the grisha they'll figure
out the rest later but when matthias
wakes up as you can imagine he's pretty
upset he assumes she's been playing him
this whole time she's like no but tyus i
really do love you i'll sort this out
but he oh wants nothing to do with her
anymore
so sad so now back to the main plot
alina realizes she's accidentally
kidnapped herself she blasts them with
some sunrise though and escapes and long
story short is found by mal the master
tracker yeah orphan friends reunited if
you're old enough that the notebook is a
relevant reference it's that scene where
she's all like why didn't you write me
and he's like i did write you every day
for a year i said all sorts of super
cool romantic stuff like you're my true
north
they don't have a wet sloppy kiss in the
rain but they do hug it out they realize
they have to go hunt that stag before
the darkling does so he doesn't get a
huge power up they track it down alina's
gonna shoot it but she's like wait a
second i think i don't have to kill it
to get its power let's see if i can try
befriending it and oh it looks like it's
working but what
oh just then the darkling shows up and
no hesitation kills that deer he's like
hey elena it's too bad you found out i'm
the bad guy i was hoping we could be
lovers and friends while i manipulate
you into following my evil plan but for
now it's plan b
he puts the stag antlers around her neck
and the bone in his hand and they manage
to fuse him together
what gross and boom now he can control
her son summoner powers so they travel
back to the fold ostensibly to destroy
it elena's reunited with her makeup
friend but turns out she was working for
keira again the whole time in fact she
tells us she just poisoned the king so
kiragan could take control although
apparently it's the king's creepy
religious advisor who's now running the
country
uh we've only met him briefly but he
seems like a weird dude but she's like
look alina kerrigan's not evil he's just
fighting for grisha rights above all
else
and indeed we get his tragic backstory
where he had glorious long hair but the
king at the time was hunting down grisha
and killed his girlfriend in front of
him no
he made a plan to use forbidden magic to
create an army to fight back but his
mom's like yo it's forbidden for a
reason it's too dangerous he didn't
listen though and when they came for him
he tried to use shadow magic boom to
turn them into monsters under his
control
but he lost control and wow splooged out
the entire fold
he tries to tell elena he's a good guy
but it's like yo maybe you had good
intentions but i mean you've clearly
become a villain he's like fine i don't
need your help anyway you'll forgive me
eventually yeah these two by the way are
the only immortal grisha so he figures
in a few hundred years they'll get over
this little speed bump and they'll be
back together and now it's time we're
going back into the fold with sun
summoner powers under his control
wow makes a big tunnel safely through
the whole thing on the other side the
rebellious army's ready to fight for
independence but wait what's this the
darkling oh
pushes the shadow forward and gulps the
whole town
yes he has no interest in destroying the
fold he's going back to his original
plan use it as a weapon to conquer the
world in the name of grecia now the
crows naturally snuck on board and they
meet mal who's knock on board too and
they team up to try to take kyrie down
but he retracts the sunlight around him
so now oh they got volker to deal with
herrigan's like don't fight against
melina join me on the dark side but she
grabs his hand and oh
a knife pops the bone out yes turns out
even though he killed the stag it
actually gave her its power first so
blam
super stag power up and as part of that
she fully absorbs the stag necklace into
her i guess that's how it's supposed to
happen
and so her two boyfriends are duking it
out for the final showdown but kerrigan
makes a tactical error takes too many
steps back
and while the volcker swoops in and eats
him so the gang makes it out okay but
alina realizes she's not strong enough
to destroy the fold yet and with the
creepy guy ruling ravka now it's
probably not safe to go home they're
going to go into hiding for a bit and
edge is actually very religious she's
like yo saying to lena i'm traveling
with you i'll be your bodyguard
casbrecker's like yo i'd still really
love to kidnap you though and get that
million dollars but alina has the
million dollar heirloom necklace like
hey what if i pay you this to not kidnap
me so they're gonna all travel together
back to ketterdam where pekka rollins is
gonna try to kill him don't worry though
kaz always has a plan for this one
though he's gonna need a heart render
and guess what ship they're on the one
with nina zenik wow plotline's gonna
converge
and as for alina and mal they're ready
for whatever ventures await them as
they're gonna eventually save the world
but at the fold the darkling has
survived and he's learned a new trick he
can now create
shadow monsters and bring them out and
that's where shadow and bone season 1
comes to an
end if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you loved
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member